Hey guys, welcome back to the course. In this lecture,
we're going to talk about good questions and bad questions.
Now, any time you talk to a customer, you run the risk
of accidentally biasing the information they give
you, causing them to lie to you, or the information they give you
is hard to understand, or worse, misleading.
A good question can bring out so much out of a customer
and it can fill in so much of your understanding
of your product and how to improve it.
Bad questions, on the other hand, are very pernicious.
Sometimes you don't know if you're asking them, and worse,
sometimes you don't know if you're getting bad answers
and incorporating that into your product decisions.
Let's simplify it.
You ask good questions - you'll make good products, you ask bad questions - you're probably going to make a bad product.
So how should we ask questions to our customers?
Well, there are some rules that are worth following to make sure that you're probably asking good questions and not the bad ones.
Number one rule is: always ask open ended questions.
An open ended question is a question that cannot
be answered with a simple yes or no,
or a specific piece of information. When you ask someone
an open ended question, it gives them the latitude
and the room to answer it and to give
the relevant information they see fit,
which is exactly what we want from them.
If I just ask someone, "Is it raining outside?"
all I get is a yes or no answer.
It's one tiny little data point. But if I ask someone,
"What do you do on rainy days?"
that could be answered in a million and one different ways.
Who knows? They could talk for an hour after that.
And you remember from the last lecture, we talked
about the fact that we want people to go on tangents,
we want them to explain. That's where we get the good stuff.
So that one's pretty simple. That's what you
should do, ask open ended questions.
If you do that, you can't really fail.
So, rule number two is where we start with
the things that you should not do.
Rule number two: don't ask binary questions.
What do I mean by binary questions?
An example of a binary question might be, "Have you heard of Uber?" That question can only be answered with yes or no - binary.
There are only two options. You don't do that because,
one, it doesn't draw them out, it doesn't entice them to
tell you more information or feel more comfortable with you.
And the second reason is that you're just robbing
yourself of information, they could have gone on, and
on, and on about a subject adjacent to that question,
but instead you ask them something
that just ends with a hard landing.
And rule number three is: don't ask hypothetical questions.
Now, I know a lot of people like to ask hypothetical questions,
they get ridiculous, and they're things
you just should not do in a customer interview. An example
of a hypothetical might be, "If you were a painter,
would you buy a subscription service for canvases,
if it was reasonably priced and the canvases were high quality?"
That question is absolutely ridiculous and I wouldn't be
surprised if I saw someone ask this in a customer
interview, and I would shake my head vigorously.
Hypotheticals fail for a number of different reasons,
but the biggest reason is that people operate and often
are illogical in fictitious environments, hypothetical
environments, and if you bring those questions
down to earth, they will actually give you information
that's easier to understand, easier for them to connect with,
and it's going to be more accurate.
Rule number four is: don't ask leading questions.
Anybody who's watched Law and Order, you know what
a leading question is. A leading question is a question
that biases or influences the person that's supposed to answer you.
Leading questions are often questions that sound
more like they're just telling you something.
An example of a leading question might be, "If you could
save 40% on your auto bill, would you be interested?"
Yes, I would, Geico. But let's be honest.
Who is going to say no to that question?
It's almost rhetorical. If I just ask you plainly,
"Would you like to save money?" you probably say yes.
So I know the answer to that before I asked it,
so why am I asking the question?
Leading questions get the answer that you want,
but the answer you want might not be the truth.
Rule number five is: don't ask questions
that might make the customer lie.
I mean, lie in the sense of questions that put them in an awkward position and will unduly influence them to give a certain answer.
So, for instance, if I ask them, "Have you ever cheated on a test?" that might be something that they might
not want to tell me, or questions, let's say, of a personal nature.
Another example question would be,
"Do you think I did a good job with this design?"
It's very awkward sitting next to someone, especially one
you don't know, to tell them what they made is terrible.
It's the reason why you don't tell your kids
that their kid art is really quite bad.
If they lie, then the data is going to be junk, but, more importantly,
if you put them in a scenario where
they could lie, you'll never know if they did,
and so it doesn't even matter, because that ambiguity makes
your data and makes your information pretty much junk.
So that's it.
Focus on open ended questions that get the most information out as possible and make your customers
feel as comfortable as they can.
Don't ask binary questions, don't ask hypotheticals, don't put them in awkward situations where they might
lie, and don't ask leading questions.
There's really no excuse for breaking some of these rules.
Bad questions can almost always
be transformed into good questions.
"Have you heard of Uber?"
You could easily just say, "If you need to get
across town, how do you do it?"
That will give you way more information.
And if they do use Uber or have heard of it, they will mention it.
"If you could save 40% on your auto bill, would you be interested?" should be changed to
probably multiple questions, but you could ask a
question that's better by saying, "If you could save 40%
on your auto bill by..." and then explain the downside,
then ask them if they would do it, that's a better question.
Maybe you save 40% because you have to carpool
with everyone every day, or maybe it's 40%
because you can't drive on Fridays or Saturdays.
I don't know, give them the whole picture.
The last thing I'm going to leave you with is my
favorite tip for asking good questions, or at least
if you ever get stuck in a situation where
you don't know what to ask.
Always use this one or have it stored
in the back of your head, ready to go.
It's "That's interesting. Tell me more!"
"I hate your product."
"That's interesting. Tell me more!"
"I'm not sure if I would pay for this."
"Why are you blocking the exits?"
"That's interesting. Tell me more!"
All right, guys, see you in the next lecture.